Instructor: Now let's go ahead
and use string concatenation
and substrings to take
a makeBeat() string
that's pretty short,
and turn it into something
that's much longer.
We're going to go ahead
and start our script
the same way we always do,
with an init() function
and a setTempo() function.
And I've defined
an initialBeat here—
this is a 16 character
makeBeat()—
and this drum
instrument variable
is a sound that I want
to use with that makeBeat().
And down here,
we have a makeBeat()
function call using that sound—
track 1, measure 1,
with that beatString.
And so this is the original beat
before I've done anything to it.
You can hear
what it sounds like.
[electronic drum beat]
Now, I want to make this
a lot longer.
But I don't just want
to repeat it over and over again
without any changes.
I want it to kind of evolve
and change as it repeats.
And so what I'm going to do
is have this expander() function
that takes this initialBeat
and turns it
into something much longer.
And here's how it works.
This is the initialBeat
where we're starting
and this is the ultimate beat
that's it's going to create.
The way it does that
is first it takes
just the first character
of the initialBeat string.
Then it takes the first two,
then it takes the first three,
then it takes the first four,
then it takes the first five,
and so on and so forth
until it's taken
all 16 characters
in that beatString.
And it concatenates them
one after another.
So it concatenates this to this,
to this, to this, to this.
And that's how we get
this longer string—
that's the ultimate result once
it's gone through that process
sixteen times,
once for each character
in the beatString.
So let's look now
at how this works in code.
I've defined this function
called expander(0).
It takes one argument,
the beatString
that we want to expand.
We start by defining
a new variable,
a string called newBeat.
And it's actually
an empty string,
so it's just
a beginning quotation mark
and an ending quotation mark
with nothing in between.
That gives us a starting point
that we can then
concatenate things onto.
Then I have a for loop.
My loop variable is i,
starting at 0 until it goes
to < beatString length.
So that'll be 0, 1, 2, 3—
the length
of my beatString is 16,
so it'll go all the way
up to 15 before it ends.
And we're incrementing
by 1 each time.
So it's 0, 1, 2, 3, 4,
all the way up to 15.
And inside that for loop,
the first thing I'm doing
is I'm defining a beatSlice()—
a slice
of my initialBeat string.
So I'm using the dot notation
here to access
the substring method.
And I'm always starting
at the first character
of the string, at 0,
and I'm always ending at i.
So the first time I run this,
it gives me a substring()
from 0 to 0.
The second time,
from 0 to 1.
The third time,
from character 0 to 2.
Then from characters 0
through 3, through 4,
and so on
until the last time this runs—
the last time we go
through the for loop—
it gives me the whole
initialBeat string
from 0 through 15.
Then each time
I grab this beatSlice().
Each time I go through
the for loop,
I add it on
to the end of newBeat.
So I do concatenation here
at newBeat.
This is everything
I've done before
and then I'm adding on
this newBeat slice
to the end of it.
So that's how I built up
that string step, by step,
by step, by step.
And when that for loop
is all done,
I return the newBeat.
So down here,
I am assigning
to the variable finalBeat
the result of calling expander()
with initialBeat.
So in other words,
that newBeat
is getting assigned
to finalBeat.
I'm printing it to the console
so I can see it down here.
And then I can switch
my makeBeat() function
calls here so that now
I'm calling makeBeat()—
still on track 1, measure 1,
still with the same sound—
but now with finalBeat
instead of with initialBeat.
So I can hit run
and hear what that sounds like.
[electronic drum beats]